# Lab:100 - FAQ

  - How do I access the Lablog?
  
  > You can access the Lablog [here](https://nebraskadetectorlab.com). If you require an account or need to reset your password, contact Caleb Fangmeier.
  > 
  
  - Where can I find the weekly lab meeting notes?
  
  > Here: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12VR-TnVe7CaaT9E18srNsdhxSi7ddcY6?usp=sharing
  
  - How do I purchase things for the lab?
  
  > You must fill out and submit a [requisition form](https://www.unl.edu/physics/docs/Requisition2014.pdf). Requisitions can also be filled out and archived in the [Lablog](https://nebraskadetectorlab.com/requisitions) You can get the appropriate cost object from supervising faculty. They must also review and approve all requisitions before submission. In the email to purchasing, you must also request to receive tracking information on the order if you want to have it. Purchasing does not share that info as a standard procedure.
  >
  > When your order arrives, you should receive an email letting you know. Retrieve it from the package room which you can access through the buisiness office. Then unpack and inspect the package. If everything looks ok, sign the packaging slip and return it to the buisiness office. If there is no packing slip, just send an email to papurchasing2@unl.edu informing them that the order has arrived. Avoid accumulating an excess of packaging material in the lab. There is a cardboard recycling dumpster on the south side of the building. Finally, be sure to submit an elog to record that the item has been received.

  - How to I dispose of batteries?
  
  > Standard alkaline batteries (AA, AAA, D Cell, etc) go in the normal trash. All other types of batteries should go into a dedicated disposal container. There is one in the Electronics Shop.
  
  - How do I dispose of empty aerosol cans?
  
  > There is a dedicated disposal bucket for aerosol cans in the instrument shop.
  
  - How do I empty the solvent contaminated rags bucket in the clean room?
  
  > Call the number on the top of the bucket to have EHS come empty it. The bucket may temporarily need to be placed out of the clean room so EHS can access it.
