# Lab:101 - General Safety Guidelines

**Work Environment** If at all possible, **don't work in the laboratory
alone.** If you do work in the laboratory alone, prop the laboratory
door open or at least make sure that the door is unlocked. The biggest
risk you face are electrical shocks, but other hazards are possible. If
injured, you will want to be able to call out for help and have people
rush in to help you. A locked door only hinders getting you aid. Don't
work in an empty building please. Do not wear rings in the lab. Do not
wear flammable clothes. EHS expects you to **wear proper lab attire**,
such as closed toe shoes and full-length pants, specifically when
handling chemicals, liquid nitrogenÂ and heavy lab equipment. If you do
frequently wear sandals, as footwear, please keep an old pair of shoes
at work to throw on when the need arises. Use PPE (personal protective
equipment) as necessary: gloves and safety goggles for handling
chemicals anywhere in JH 174; lab coat, booties, hairnet and, if needed,
beard nets in the clean room. All types of PPE are available in JH 174.

No undergraduate should work alone in the laboratory without at least a
graduate student around unless an exception is made by profs. Golf,
Kravchenko, or Claes.

No food or drink is allowed in the HEP lab.

Keep the lab space free of obstructions, trip hazards, or "clothesline"
hazards. Keep aisles and exits easily accessible. All lab's
furnishings/equipment must be stored and used in a safe manner to avoid
falling or crushing hazards. Your working space must be adequately lit.

The lab must be kept clean, neat and uncluttered: after a day's work,
clean the surfaces you used, store tools as appropriate, dispose waste
according to regulations. Once a project is over, dismantle the
equipment and free the workbench space.

Any new personnel must get safety orientation from HEP faculty, and be
familiar with the location of the First Aid Kit, hard copy of this
Safety Operating Procedures document and PPE.

Any issue with the work environment (examples: slippery floors,
excessive clutter, improper waste disposal, unsafe looking wiring, etc
etc) must be reported immediately to profs. Claes, Golf, or Kravchenko.

**Chemicals:** All bottles must be labeled, even water. No uncapped
bottles, not even empty bottles. Return used chemicals to EHS, don't let
used chemical nor empty bottles accumulate. Don't stockpile used
chemicals and if you see used chemicals accumulate, don't keep silent.
EHS helps us do proper chemicals disposal.

Any chemical brought to the lab beyond simple household cleaners, or
cleaning alcohol must be accompanied by a Safety Data Sheet (SDS). We
have SDS data sheets stored in a cabinet next to the First Aid Kit. Digital
copies of the SDS are available [here](https://github.com/nebraska-silicon-lab/Lab-Instructions/tree/master/sds).

**Electrical:** High voltage power supplies can kill you, handle them with caution and
receive adequate instruction from experienced group members. Low voltage
power supplies, if not worked with properly, can lead to fires. Handle
all power supplies with care. Do not have exposed wires while working
with any power supplies, use proper plug-in or soldered connections.

Avoid using power strips and extension cords when possible. When these
are used, they must be plugged directly into permanently installed
electrical outlets. Never daisy-chain extension cords. Do not use
multi-plug adapters, if need arises use proper power strips. Extension
or flexible cords should be for temporary use only. All electrical cords
should be protected from damage and be in good repair. Do not use
extension cords where liquid spills are possible (e.g. next to chilled
water tank/supply).

All electrical appliances in JH 174 must be UL (Underwriters Laboratory,
most purchased equipment) or UNL Facilities Management approved. Any
custom electrical equipment must have all electrical components or
outlets enclosed to protect against shock or electrocution. There must
be no open wiring. There must be adequate clearance in front of
electrical panels/breaker boxes (three feet from the panel/box). All
electrical controls, including emergency shut-offs, must be kept
accessible.

**Water:** When water chillers are used, check them frequently. If there
is a water leak, will it spray water on electronics? Let us make sure
that even the most surprising water leak will not spray water on
electronics. Make sure all cooling lines use reinforced water tubing (if
plastic) and held on the hose clamps very tightly; and clamped and
affixed tightly if metal.

**Compressed Gas Cylinders:** Gas cylinders with compressed nitrogen may
be in use in JH 174. All gas cylinders must be properly restrained
(mounted, or secured to a wall with a chain or a strap), and labeled.
All fittings and equipment associated with compressed gasses must be
appropriate and in good condition.

**Waste disposal:** Presently we have two types of hazardous waste:
sharps (e.g. used razor blades) and soldering waste (including
contaminated papers and wire clippings). Proper containers for disposing
these are found in the sink area of JH 174. If you handle any other type
of hazardous waste, check with the SDS and profs. Claes, Golf, or
Kravchenko regarding proper disposal. All collection containers must be
appropriately labeled. There must be no unnecessary accumulation of
spent or used materials. Do not pour chemicals into the drain or throw
hazardous waste into general trash bin, consult SDS if unsure.

**Lockup:** We don't want stuff stolen. Make sure the laboratory doors
and offices are locked. Don't assume the last person will check but if
you are the last person, please check every door!

If you leave town, make sure there is a schedule of people to look at
your equipment every day.

**Injuries:** To be avoided and may they never happen, but if you get
injured, not matter how small, get help. Report injuries if you can
immediately (Kravchenko/Golf, EHS, Donald Umstadter
\<donald.umstadter\@unl.edu\> (the Department safety officer), Dan Claes
\<dclaes\@unl.edu\>), but above all get help. If at all possible get
someone to take you to the hospital -- if you can't get help call the
University Police

-   2-2222 (Campus Phone)

-   402-472-2222 (Cell Phone)

-   911

and get the University Police to take you to a hospital. Don't worry
about the paperwork: your doctor bills will be paid so get treatment
first, the paperwork can be sorted out later.

**UNL-wide safety training:** All team members working in the lab must
attend the Department's Safety Colloquium, usually conducted in the
beginning of each fall semester. As an alternative, one can also take
these UNL online safety courses

-   Core 1 -- Injury and Illness Prevention Plan (IIPP)

-   Core 2 -- Emergency Preparedness Training

both of which are accessible from the
https://ehs.unl.edu/web-based-training page.

**General Emergency Action Personnel Guidance for Incidence Response** 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

***Evacuation***
----------------

*(Fire, Hazardous Materials Release)*

-   Assist in evacuation if the fire alarm sounds.

-   In the event of an evacuation, gather your personal belongings
    quickly (purse, keys, cell phone N Card etc.) and proceed to the
    nearest exit.

-   Do not use the elevator.

-   Move away from the problem, use alternative exits.

-   Help those who need assistance.

-   Report the location of those unable to evacuate to first responders.

-   Be ready to be guided by additional instructions.

***Ambulance*** 
----------------

-   **911, 2-2222, or 402-472-2222**

-   Give exact location where ambulance is needed.

-   Give brief description of emergency, including: number of victims,
    conscious/unconscious, breathing on their own, and CPR in progress.

-   If a heart condition is suspected, be sure to advise the dispatcher.

Notification 
-------------

-   Notifications about serious incidents on campus are sent using the
    following methods when available:

    -   UNL Alert (unlalert.unl.edu)

    -   UNL main Web site: unl.edu

    -   Campus radio KRNU 90.3

If you receive a UNL Alert, please share the information immediately.

**Tornado**
-----------

Tornado Watches and Warnings are issued by the National Weather Service
when the probability exists that a significant threat could develop over
a wide area. Warnings are issued for much smaller areas and periods of
time than Watches. ***Tornado Watch*** means that conditions are
favorable for tornadoes to form. Be alert to weather conditions and
announcements. ***Tornado Warning*** means that a tornado has been
sighted or radar indicates rotation in the clouds. TAKE SHELTER! Advise
other to do the same.

**In the event of a National Weather Service issued tornado warning:**

-   UNL Alert will be activated

-   Lancaster County will sound sirens based on confirmation of a
    tornado

    -   University personnel are directed to seek shelter for one or
        more of the above

    -   It is not safe to leave the shelter until local radio and
        television stations announce that the warning has expired.

-   Where available, the University may provide supplemental
    notification tornado warnings through one of the following methods:

    -   Amplified voice announcements over the public address system

    -   unl.edu and social media

**More information about emergency procedures:
<http://emergency.unl.edu>**
